Bugfix 902 revise readme (#913)
ag2ai/ag2: README.md

```python
from autogen import AssistantAgent, UserProxyAgent, config_list_from_json

llm_config = {
    "config_list": config_list_from_json(env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST")
}

assistant = AssistantAgent("assistant", llm_config=llm_config)
user_proxy = UserProxyAgent("user_proxy", code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": False})
user_proxy.initiate_chat(assistant, message="Plot a chart of NVDA and TESLA stock price change YTD.")
# This initiates an automated chat between the two agents to solve the task
```

## Example applications

We maintain a dedicated repository with a wide range of applications to help you get started with various use cases or check out our collection of juypter notebooks as a starting point.

- [Build with AG2](https://github.com/ag2ai/build-with-ag2)
- [Jutpyer Notebooks](notebook)

## Introduction of different agent concepts

We have several agent concepts in AG2 to help you build your AI agents. We introduce the most common ones here.

- **Conversable Agent**: Create conversations between agents
- **Human in the loop**: Add human input to the conversation
- **Orchestrating multiple agents**: GroupChat and Swarm as orchastration concepts

> - **Tools**: Attach functionalities to agents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tools**: Programs that can be registered, invoked and executed by agents.
```

> - **Structured Output**: Receive structured output from agents

Reviewer: Not sure if this should be listed at this level. It may be too specific.

Author: Fair point. Let us think about it if we can find a better use case. Maybe one custom agent? Any preferences of presenting one specific agent? Or maybe dependency injection since it is now an always upcoming topic related to security.

Reviewer 2: The documentation website may be a better place for going into detail on these concepts. So if we keep this list, perhaps each has a link to the relevant Basic or Advanced Guide page in the documentation.

Reviewer: Can we say "advanced agentic design patterns" and give pointers to them like https://docs.ag2.ai/docs/user-guide/advanced-concepts/code-execution? Perhaps we can move "structured output" from "basic concepts" to the "advanced concepts" section too in the doc website.

Author: This is a great idea. I will add a section for advanced concepts and we can link the docs.

Author: @sonichi @marklysze I have added advanced agentic design patterns and a few that I regarded as the most important. Hard to decide though... What do you guys think?

```python
import json
from pydantic import BaseModel
from autogen import ConversableAgent

# Define a structured response model
class LessonPlan(BaseModel):
    title: str
    script: str

llm_config_list = config_list_from_json(
    env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST",
    filter_dict={
        "model": ["gpt-4o"],
    },
)

for config in llm_config_list:
    config["response_format"] = LessonPlan

llm_config = {
    "config_list": llm_config_list,
}

# Configure the AI agent
lesson_agent = ConversableAgent(
    name="lesson_agent",
    llm_config=llm_config,
    system_message="You create simple lesson plans."
)

# Human agent
human = ConversableAgent(name="human", human_input_mode="NEVER")

# Start chat
result = human.initiate_chat(recipient=lesson_agent, message="Create a lesson on gravity.", max_turns=1)

```

## Code Style and Linting

This project uses pre-commit hooks to maintain code quality. Before contributing:

1. Install pre-commit:

```bash
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

2. The hooks will run automatically on commit, or you can run them manually:

```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```

## Announcement Highlights

> 🎉 May 29, 2024: DeepLearning.ai launched a new short course [AI Agentic Design Patterns with AutoGen](https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/ai-agentic-design-patterns-with-autogen), made in collaboration with Microsoft and Penn State University, and taught by AutoGen creators [Chi Wang](https://github.com/sonichi) and [Qingyun Wu](https://github.com/qingyun-wu).

Reviewer: The most recent announcement should be the AG2 repo establishment and the governance.

```bash
pip install ag2
```

Minimal dependencies are installed by default. You can install extra options based on the features you need.

### Setup your API keys

To keep your LLM dependencies neat we recommend using the `OAI_CONFIG_LIST` file to store your API keys.

You can use the sample file `OAI_CONFIG_LIST_sample` as a template.

```json
[
  {
    "model": "gpt-4o",
    "api_key": "<your OpenAI API key here>"
  }
]
```

### Run your first agent

Create a script or a Jupyter Notebook and run your first agent.

```python
from autogen import AssistantAgent, UserProxyAgent, config_list_from_json

llm_config = {
    "config_list": config_list_from_json(env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST")
}

assistant = AssistantAgent("assistant", llm_config=llm_config)
user_proxy = UserProxyAgent("user_proxy", code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": False})
user_proxy.initiate_chat(assistant, message="Plot a chart of NVDA and TESLA stock price change YTD.")
# This initiates an automated chat between the two agents to solve the task
```

## Example applications

> We maintain a dedicated repository with a wide range of applications to help you get started with various use cases or check out our collection of juypter notebooks as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We maintain a dedicated repository with a wide range of applications to help you get started with various use cases or check out our collection of jupyter notebooks as a starting point.
```

    recipient=fact_checker,
    message="What is AG2?",
    max_turns=2
)
```

### Human in the loop

Sometimes your wished workflow requires human input. Therefore you can enable the human in the loop feature.

If you set `human_input_mode` to `ALWAYS` on ConversableAgent you can give human input to the conversation.

There are three modes for `human_input_mode`: `ALWAYS`, `NEVER`, `TERMINATE`.

We created a class which sets the `human_input_mode` to `ALWAYS` for you. Its called `UserProxyAgent`.

```python
from autogen import ConversableAgent

# Create an AI agent
assistant = ConversableAgent(
    name="assistant",
    system_message="You are a helpful assistant.",
    llm_config=llm_config
)

# Create a human agent with manual input mode
human = ConversableAgent(
    name="human",
    human_input_mode="ALWAYS"
)
# or
human = UserProxyAgent(name="human", code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": False})

# Start the chat
human.initiate_chat(
    recipient=assistant,
    message="Hello! What's 2 + 2?"
)

```

### Orchestrating multiple agents

Users can define their own orchestration patterns using the flexible programming interface from AG2.

> Additionally AG2 provides two main patterns to orchestrate multiple agents, `GroupChat` and `Swarm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally AG2 provides multiple built-in patterns to orchestrate multiple agents, such as `GroupChat` and `Swarm`.
```

Reviewer: I just found that you were following https://docs.ag2.ai/docs/user-guide/basic-concepts/orchestrations which requires revisions.
https://docs.ag2.ai/docs/user-guide/advanced-concepts/conversation-patterns-deep-dive is slightly better, though it also requires some revision.
So I suggest that we simply provide a link to https://docs.ag2.ai/docs/user-guide/advanced-concepts/conversation-patterns-deep-dive for now and skip the following content in this section.

Author: @sonichi I have followed the structure from there but the example is simplified. We should at least introduce the basic concept of "Orchestration" in the readme so people who are new to agents understand what the benefit is.

The project is currently maintained by a [dynamic group of volunteers](MAINTAINERS.md) from several organizations. Contact project administrators Chi Wang and Qingyun Wu via [support@ag2.ai](mailto:support@ag2.ai) if you are interested in becoming a maintainer.

## Table of Contents

- [AG2: Open-Source AgentOS for AI Agents](#ag2-open-source-agentos-for-ai-agents)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Setup your API keys](#setup-your-api-keys)
    - [Run your first agent](#run-your-first-agent)
  - [Example applications](#example-applications)
  - [Introduction of different agent concepts](#introduction-of-different-agent-concepts)
    - [Conversable agent](#conversable-agent)
    - [Human in the loop](#human-in-the-loop)
    - [Orchestrating multiple agents](#orchestrating-multiple-agents)
    - [Tools](#tools)
    - [Structured Output](#structured-output)
  - [Code Style and Linting](#code-style-and-linting)
  - [Announcements](#announcements)
  - [Contributors Wall](#contributors-wall)
  - [Related Papers](#related-papers)
  - [Cite the project](#cite-the-project)
  - [License](#license)

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting Started

For a step-by-step walk through of AG2 concepts and code, see [Basic Concepts](https://docs.ag2.ai/docs/user-guide/basic-concepts) in our documentation.
```

### Installation

> AG2 requires **Python version >= 3.9, < 3.14**. AG2 is available via `pyautogen` (or its alias `autogen` or `ag2`) on PyPI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AG2 requires **Python version >= 3.9, < 3.14**. AG2 is available via `ag2` on PyPI (you can also use `pyautogen` or `autogen`).
```

I think this aligns better with the following bash command.

```bash
pip install ag2
```

> Minimal dependencies are installed without extra options. You can install extra options based on the feature you need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Minimal dependencies are installed by default. You can install extra options based on the features you need.
```

### Setup your API keys

To keep your LLM dependencies neat we recommend using the `OAI_CONFIG_LIST` file to store your API keys.

You can use the sample file `OAI_CONFIG_LIST_sample` as a template.

```json
[
  {
    "model": "gpt-4o",
    "api_key": "<your OpenAI API key here>"
  }
]
```

### Run your first agent

> Create a script or a jupyter notebook and run your first agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a script or a Jupyter Notebook and run your first agent.
```

```python
from autogen import AssistantAgent, UserProxyAgent, config_list_from_json

llm_config = {
    "config_list": config_list_from_json(env_or_file="OAI_CONFIG_LIST")
}

assistant = AssistantAgent("assistant", llm_config=llm_config)
user_proxy = UserProxyAgent("user_proxy", code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": False})
user_proxy.initiate_chat(assistant, message="Plot a chart of NVDA and TESLA stock price change YTD.")
# This initiates an automated chat between the two agents to solve the task
```

## Example applications

We maintain a dedicated repository with a wide range of applications to help you get started with various use cases or check out our collection of juypter notebooks as a starting point.

- [Build with AG2](https://github.com/ag2ai/build-with-ag2)

> - [Jutpyer Notebooks](notebook)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Jupyter Notebooks](notebook)
```

- **Tools**: Programs that can be registered, invoked and executed by agents
- **Structured Output**: Receive structured output from agents

### Conversable agent

The conversable agent is the most used agent and is created for generating conversations among agents.
It serves as a base class for all agents in AG2.

```python
from autogen import ConversableAgent

# Create an AI agent
assistant = ConversableAgent(
    name="assistant",
    system_message="You are an assistant that responds concisely.",
    llm_config=llm_config
)

# Create another AI agent
fact_checker = ConversableAgent(
    name="fact_checker",
    system_message="You are a fact-checking assistant.",
    llm_config=llm_config
)

# Start the conversation
assistant.initiate_chat(
    recipient=fact_checker,
    message="What is ag2?",
    max_turns=2
)
```

### Human in the loop

Sometimes your wished workflow requires human input. Therefore you can enable the human in the loop feature.

> If you set the setting `human_input_mode` to `ALWAYS` on the Conversable Agent you can give human input to the conversation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you set `human_input_mode` to `ALWAYS` on ConversableAgent you can give human input to the conversation.
```

There are three modes for `human_input_mode`: `ALWAYS`, `NEVER`, `TERMINATE`.

We created a class which sets the `human_input_mode` to `ALWAYS` for you. Its called `UserProxyAgent`.

```python
from autogen import ConversableAgent

# Create an AI agent
assistant = ConversableAgent(
    name="assistant",
    system_message="You are a helpful assistant.",
    llm_config=llm_config
)

# Create a human agent with manual input mode
human = ConversableAgent(
    name="human",
    human_input_mode="ALWAYS"
)
# or
human = UserProxyAgent(name="human", code_execution_config={"work_dir": "coding", "use_docker": False})

# Start the chat
human.initiate_chat(
    recipient=assistant,
    message="Hello! What's 2 + 2?"
)

```

### Orchestrating multiple agents

> At ag2 we have two concepts to orchestrate multiple agents. The `Group Chat` or `Swarm`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AG2 has two main patterns to orchestrate multiple agents, `Group Chat` and `Swarm`.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is accurate. How about:

Users can define their own orchestration patterns using the flexible programming interface from AG2. AG2 also offers multiple built-in patterns to orchestrate multiple agents, for example, `Group Chat` and `Swarm`.

Author: I agree, they are not forced to use GroupChat or Swarm. But those are embedded in our API and they are often used. I have adjusted the wording.

```python
from datetime import datetime
from typing import Annotated

from autogen import ConversableAgent, register_function

# 1. Our tool, returns the day of the week for a given date
def get_weekday(date_string: Annotated[str, "Format: YYYY-MM-DD"]) -> str:
    date = datetime.strptime(date_string, "%Y-%m-%d")
    return date.strftime("%A")

# 2. Agent for determining whether to run the tool
date_agent = ConversableAgent(
    name="date_agent",
    system_message="You get the day of the week for a given date.",
    llm_config=llm_config,
)

# 3. And an agent for executing the tool
executor_agent = ConversableAgent(
    name="executor_agent",
    human_input_mode="NEVER",
)

# 4. Registers the tool with the agents, the description will be used by the LLM
register_function(
    get_weekday,
    caller=date_agent,
    executor=executor_agent,
    description="Get the day of the week for a given date",
)

# 5. Two-way chat ensures the executor agent follows the suggesting agent
chat_result = executor_agent.initiate_chat(
    recipient=date_agent,
    message="I was born on the 25th of March 1995, what day was it?",
    max_turns=1,
)
```

### Structured Output

> Structured output is a way to get structured data from the agents. Structured output are really helpful when you need to do an action based on the output from the agent, e.g. upload to a database, create a file, show a table, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Structured output is a way to get structured data from the agents. Structured outputs are really helpful when you need to do an action based on the output from the agent, e.g. upload to a database, create a file, show a table, etc.
```

Author: I removed the structured output from the readme. Open for discussions about which concepts and maybe event agents we want to present.
